h1. Avalanche

p. We are a team made of developers that learned to program while developing games, our major goal is to make an engine
that makes easier for game making, without reducing performance or limiting like other tools. We also want it to be
Free and Open Source.

p. Please note that being Free and Open Source does not excludes the possibility of writing proprietary profitable
games, so we also make it easy to create such projects.

p. Finishing, we also desire to create some games, and create a community about Indie Game.

h1. Building

h2. General Requirements

p. You will need to install these packages to build any Avalanche thing:

* "GCC":http://gcc.gnu.org/ (Linux) or "Mingw":http://www.mingw.org/ (Windows)
* "GLib":https://developer.gnome.org/glib/
* "Vala":https://live.gnome.org/Vala/

We might add others packages to this list, so keep your eyes open.

h2. Others Requirements

p. To build the editor, also install:

* "libgee":https://live.gnome.org/Libgee
* "gtk3":http://www.gtk.org/
* "gtksourceview3":http://projects.gnome.org/gtksourceview/
* "json-glib":https://live.gnome.org/JsonGlib/
(not everything is required for running)

p. To build an example or SDK template, also install:

* "SDL 2":http://www.libsdl.org/hg.php
* "SDL-Image 2":http://www.libsdl.org/projects/SDL_image/
* "Chipmunk Physics":http://chipmunk-physics.net/
(everything is optional)

h3. Deploy on Linux

p. Linux developers, can use package managers, to install programs and it dependencies, so they don't have reasons to build anything statically, just make a package to your targeted distro and let the package manager do it is work.

h3. Deploy on Windows

p. On Windows our builds include every library you need, in the deploy tab you can choose if you will build the game
statically or dynamically. Because of the LGPL coverage, you should use the DLL model on Windows.

h3. Deploy on Mac

p. * TODO *

h2. Play a Game

h3. On Windows

p. You might include needed DLLs, but do not forget their licenses when needed.

h3. On Linux

p. Add Gtk3, Glib, libgee* and SDL2** to the package dependency list. 

p. * We are not using libgee for now. ** Before the stable SDL2 release it will be static linked on Linux too, because
not every distro support unstable pacakges.

h3. On Mac

p. * TODO (should be like on Windows)*


h2. Building the Editor

h3. Linux

p. Open the Avalanche's source folder in a Terminal and run `make`, if everything is alright then `sudo make install`,
you will be prompted to input your password to install the editor in the system, after that just search for avalanche
in your desktop.

p. If you got some errors during the make process, double check if the dependencies are all right, then check if the
last commit is building on Travis, if it is so create a issue using our issues standards.

h3. Windows

p. Just install the dependencies (I might add some help here), open the terminal, type make, if no make command is
found then make sure that Mingw is in your path and then go to the Avalanche's folder using *cd* and run `make`, if
everything succeeds now type `make install`.

h3. On Mac

p. *Not Tested*

p. Install the libs with Homebrew and try to build using `make OSNAME=Linux`, if everything is ok then create a issue
with the logs here, this way you are helping us with Avalanche's Mac support.

h2. Hacking

p. If you want to contribute to the project, first, note that everything you pull to this project is copyrighted to the
contributors. If you do not want to be an official contributor, just fork the project and pull your commits to the main
repository, you should also keep our coding style:

<pre>
// Root namespace on a fake '-1' indentations level
namespace A {
// do not write 'using'

// Type is camel case, do not refer to glib directly, but always refer to others
public class SyntaxSample : Object {
    // Tabs instead of spaces
    public void x_e(int y, float x) {
		/* Comments on separated lines
		 * Any multi-lined comment over ** and any single over //
		 * Between 80 to 120 characters per line (even code)
		 * Indentation: 1 Tab
		 */
		int z_a;
		// Space before every comment
		if(y > x) {
			// Explicit namespaces, no "using" statements 
			z_a = A.B.do_sth(x, y, z, a, b, c, d, e, f , g,
			h, i, j, k, l, m, n, o , p);
		// Space before every opening bracket
		}else {
			A.B.do_otherth(y);
		}
		// If needed remember to do the correct usage of &\&&
	}
}// SyntaxSample << This kind of comment is for remembering what is being closed


public enum  SomeEnum {
	ALL_UPPER_CASE, WITH_UNDERSCORE
}// SomeEnum


}// A
</pre>

p. If you follow those styles guidelines your commit might be accepted.

h2. Problems

p. If something is bothering you, you should really create an issue on our GitHub, we have no restriction about the
issues that you should create, but we ask you to:

p. Give information about your Operational System, GCC version, Vala version, and everything you tried to do to fix
the problem, if some commit were added, sending it might help solving the problem.

h3. About Build Issues

p. You should avoid to create issues to unsupported ways of building the editor.
For build issues use a name like `Build Error on Operational System - Details`, where "Operational System" is
your "Windows / Mac / Linux Distro" version, "Details" might be what you think that is causing the problem.

h1. Team

h3. Main Team:

* Christian Ferraz Lemos de Sousa (founder, feature planner, main programmer, build scripts)
* Pedro Henrique Lara Campos (founder, API planner, main programmer, janitor)

h3. Colaborators:

* Rafael Fidelis (proposed mac tester)

h3. Special Thanks:

* Community (ideas and help)

h1. Licensing

h2. Avalanche Editor

<pre>
  This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public
  License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this
  file, You can obtain one at http://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/.
                                ---
                          Copyright(C) 2013
                   Christian Ferraz Lemos de Sousa
                      Pedro Henrique Lara Campos
</pre>


h2. Game Player

<pre>
                          Copyright(C) 2013
                   Christian Ferraz Lemos de Sousa
                      Pedro Henrique Lara Campos

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.
</pre>

